feat(proxy): allow devProxy in production (HTTP only) and harden cookie rewriter (#91)
rolleyio/nuxt-directus-sdk: docs/guide/proxy.md

# Proxy

> The module can create a proxy at `/directus` that forwards requests from your Nuxt server to Directus. This eliminates CORS issues, handles cookie forwarding for session auth, and (in dev) proxies WebSocket connections for realtime.

Reviewer: at a user defined path, with default to `/directus`

```suggestion
The module can create a proxy path to Directus at a user defined frontend path (defaults to `/directus`). This eliminates CORS issues, handles cookie forwarding for session auth, and (in dev) proxies WebSocket connections for realtime.
```

> ::: tip Renamed from `devProxy`

Reviewer: https://github.com/rolleyio/nuxt-directus-sdk/pull/91/changes/c81c4020ef24b2cacfd65e228c7e366268d330dc..34b0f4b46a1be3960d5dfddcd2452ffe54c6d5b3#r3343705575

The option was originally called `devProxy` because it only worked in development. It now works in production builds too, so the name has been generalised to `proxy`. The old name still works as an alias but logs a deprecation warning. Rename your config at your convenience.
:::

## Default Behaviour

The proxy is **enabled by default in development** and **disabled in production**. Most users don't need to configure anything.

```typescript
// nuxt.config.ts, zero config needed
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['nuxt-directus-sdk'],
  directus: {
    url: process.env.DIRECTUS_URL,
  },
})
```

> Browser requests that would normally go to `https://your-directus.com/items/posts` instead go to `http://localhost:3000/directus/items/posts` and the Nuxt server forwards them.

Reviewer: inconsistencies across code base for your-directus.com (maybe it's consistent in docs) vs directus.example.com (some tests)

Didn't do much searching here.

See the [`url` option reference](/api/configuration/module#url) for split-URL configuration.

## Disabling the Proxy

If you want browsers to talk to Directus directly even in development (for instance, you've configured CORS on Directus and prefer real URLs in DevTools Network panel), disable the proxy:

```typescript
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  directus: {
    proxy: false,
  },
})
```

Or disable just the WebSocket proxy by leaving `enabled: true` and setting `wsPath: false` (HTTP proxy on, realtime goes direct).

## Production Behaviour

In production builds the proxy is off by default and all requests go directly to the `client` URL from the browser. This is what most users want: no extra hop, no Nuxt server involvement on every Directus call. For this to work with session auth, cookie domains have to match, either same apex domain or configured correctly. See the [Authentication guide](/guide/authentication) for the cross-domain setup.

> ### Enabling the proxy in production

Reviewer: Is this section necessary? It's covered in the configuration steps.

- **Per-IP rate limiting** (`RATE_LIMITER_*`)
- The client IP recorded in the **activity / audit log**

For Directus to read that header it has to trust the proxy, which it controls with `IP_TRUST_PROXY`:

- **Directus 11 and earlier** defaulted to `IP_TRUST_PROXY=true`; it trusts `X-Forwarded-For` out of the box, so the proxy "just worked".
- **Directus 12+** changed the default to `false` to harden against IP spoofing ([directus#27607](https://github.com/directus/directus/pull/27607)). With the new default, Directus ignores `X-Forwarded-For`, so every proxied request looks like it came from your Nuxt server.

If you run the proxy **and** rely on client IPs on Directus 12+, set it to trust exactly one hop, the SDK proxy:

```bash
# Directus .env
IP_TRUST_PROXY=1
```

Prefer the hop count (`1`) over a blanket `true`. The SDK proxy already strips the attacker-controllable inbound header and forwards a single clean entry, so trusting one hop gives you the real client IP without re-opening the spoofing hole that `true` is prone to. If you stack another proxy in front of your Nuxt app (e.g. Cloudflare to Nuxt to Directus), increase the count to match.

> ::: tip Direct mode is unaffected

Reviewer: "Direct mode" isn't something I think the user would understand intuitively; I could be wrong.  Suggest removing this section unless I'm missing the purpose of including it.

This section only applies when the proxy is enabled. With `proxy: false`, browsers talk to Directus directly and it sees the real client IP from the connection itself; `IP_TRUST_PROXY` then only concerns whatever proxy sits in front of Directus.
:::

::: warning Resolution is only as trustworthy as your edge
The proxy resolves the client IP from the request reaching your Nuxt server. If Nuxt is exposed directly to the internet with no trusted edge in front of it, that value can itself be spoofed. Configure your platform / Nitro trust settings so the incoming IP is trustworthy before relying on it downstream.
:::

## Migration from `devProxy`

> The option was renamed from `devProxy` to `proxy` to reflect that it works in production too. The old name still works as an alias:

Reviewer: Same feedback as https://github.com/rolleyio/nuxt-directus-sdk/pull/91/changes/c81c4020ef24b2cacfd65e228c7e366268d330dc..34b0f4b46a1be3960d5dfddcd2452ffe54c6d5b3#r3343705575
